Source: http://www.skoool.ie/skoool/examcentre_sc.asp?id=2875


The eye is the organ of seeing and is made up of: 

Sclera: tough outer white layer of the wall of the eye.
Cornea: transparent ‘window’ of the eye, focussing of light on the retina.
Iris: the coloured sheet of muscle, controls the pupil size so controls entry of light.
Pupil: a hole in the iris letting light into the back of the eye.
Ciliary Body: a ring of muscle controlling the shape of the lens.
Suspensory Ligaments: transfer the pull of the ciliary body to the lens.
Lens: the fine adjustment to the focusing of light onto the retina.
Retina: light sensitive layer of rods and cones converting light into nerve impulses.
Fovea or Yellow Spot: a tiny area of densely packed cones for detailed and coloured vision.
Choroid: a black-pigmented layer preventing internal reflection of light.
Blind Spot: exit point of the optic nerve cutting through the retina so no rods or cones here.
Optic Nerve: carries the impulses from the rods and cones to the visual centre of the brain.
Aqueous Humour: a clear liquid in front of the lens maintaining the shape of the cornea.
Vitreous Humour: a clear jelly offering support and shape to the back of the eye.

The ear is the organ of hearing which has two major functions:

Hearing: detection of vibrations, their frequency (pitch) and amplitude (loudness).
Balance: detection of direction of motion, acceleration and head position related to gravity.

Pinna: said to collect sound waves and channel them into the external auditory canal.
External Auditory Canal: earwax and hairs prevent foreign material entering the ear.
Eardrum (tympanum): vibrates with the same frequency as the sound waves beating against it.
Ear Ossicles (hammer, anvil, stirrup): transmit and amplify the vibrations of the eardrum to the inner ear.
Eustachian Tube: when it opens it equalises the air pressure on both sides of the eardrum allowing the eardrum to vibrate freely so accurate sound sensations are generated.
Oval Window: a flexible partition allowing transfer of vibrations to inner ear.
Round Window: a flexible partition to deaden the pressure changes in the inner ear.
Cochlea: conversion of sound waves into nerve impulses — ‘hearing’ apparatus.
Auditory Nerve: carries impulses from the cochlea to the brain’s hearing centre.
Semicircular Canals: detection of direction of motion and acceleration — balance.
Utricle and Saccule: detection of acceleration and head position related to gravity — balance.
Vestibular Nerve: carries impulses from the balance organs to the cerebellum

The skin is the outer layer of vertebrate animals. Its major functions are protection, temperature regulation and to act as a sense organ.

Two major layers of the skin: epidermis and dermis.

Epidermis  

The epidermis is the outer renewable layer of the skin. As it wears away at the surface it grows at the base.

Malpighian Layer: This is the base layer, which is constantly producing new cells by mitosis. The new cells are pushed towards the surface. The dark pigment melanin is produced here.

Granular Layer: The protein keratin accumulates in the cells giving them a granular appearance. The cells finally die.

Cornified Layer: This is the surface layer of dead keratinised cells, which is constantly being eroded.

Dermis 

The dermis is the inner layer of the skin, above it is the epidermis and below it is adipose tissue.

Many different structures are present in the dermis: hair follicles, sebaceous glands, sweat glands, blood vessels, sensory nerve endings all of which are embedded in a dense matrix of connective tissue.